---
layout: page
title: Input device driver - button and joystick
---

# Introduction
This lab is concerned with device driver development for the
LPC4088QSB development board and the experiment base board. The goal
is to develop an input device driver for the user push button and the
joystick.

# In the lab

1. Clone the `git` repository for this lab by executing the following command in the git bash shell:

    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/DavidKendall/buttons
    ```
    Build and run the program. Observe its behaviour, then study the code in
    `main.c`. Notice that the program flashes the LEDs. This time we've used
    standard CMSIS register names to refer to the peripherals. We can
    do this because we've included the header file `LPC407x_8x_177x_8x.h`. 
    We'll use the CMSIS names from now on in this module when we need to refer
    to the core and peripheral registers.

2. Write a function `buttonPressed()` that returns `true` when the
user push button (this button is next to the USB female A connector on
the LPC4088QSB) is pressed and `false` when the button is not
pressed. You'll need to look at the
[schematic]({{site.raurl}}/LPC4088_QuickStart_Board_revB.pdf) to find
out which pin is connected to the push button. Configure the pin as
before, except this time you need to configure the direction register
so that the pin is an *input* rather than an output. Define a mask for
the pin in your program and then use the logical AND operator to test
the value of the pin. Notice that the value of the pin is LOW when the
button is pressed and HIGH when the button is not pressed.

3. Test your `buttonPressed()` function by using it to control the
flashing of the LEDs. The LEDs should flash if the button is not being
held down and the flashing should stop when the button is being held
down.

4. Now modify the program so that the LEDs don't start flashing until
the button is pressed and released, and then continue flashing until
the button is pressed and released again. Each button press and
release should start/stop the flashing of the LEDs. It's acceptable to
produce a solution that requires a 'long' button press to stop the flashing
of the LEDs. We'll see better solutions to this problem later in the module.


